# Finding Genes

Finding possible gene sequences in DNA from a given sense strand in string format.  
I created this for a DP Computer Science Y1 course

## Algorithm

The first thing that the 'getORF' method does is check and make sure that the sequence is valid. Since the strand is made up of blocks of three, the 'getORF' method first checks that the length of the string is cleanly divisible by three. Afterwards the method assigns the 'pos' variable the value zero. The pos variable dictates where in the string the 'startIndex' variable starts scanning from. Next the method enters a while loop. The while loop just makes it scan the whole thing, not just look for the first ORF. The while continues until the pos is one less than the length of the sequence. Inside the while loop, the first thing the method does is find the Start Codon. It starts searching from the index pos (which is 0 on the first time around) and looks for the first instance of "ATG" in the sequence. Afterwards we have a check to see if any Start Codons were found. Because 'indexOf' returns -1 if no subsequence is found, I check if the 'startIndex' >= 0, ie. >-1. If that is true we continue into finding the Stop Codon. If it is false, we set pos to be equal to the sequence length, thereby exiting the loop. In the case that we did find a Start Codon, we first set variables to be equal to the index of the first Stop Codon found after the current Start Codon. Since 'indexOf' returns -1 when unsuccessful, I couldn't just use 'Math.min' to find which one comes first so I had to create a method that validates the Stop Codon. Before entering the 'setEnd' method, I set the Integer 'myEnd' equal to null. Because it is an object I can set it to null, and use that to check if any valid Stop Codons were found, kind of like a flag. I set 'myEnd' to the output of the 'setEnd' method and make 'setEnd' return and Integer type. If the difference between 'finalIndex' and 'startIndex' is a factor of three, then it returns 'finalIndex', thereby setting 'myEnd' to 'finalIndex'. If the 'finalIndex' passed to the method doesn't pass that check then it doesn't change 'myEnd'. What this method effectively does is validate that the Stop Codon is a factor of three from the Start Codon, as it must be in order to be valid. I repeat this three times, once for each of the possible Stop Codon substrings, then check if any valid Stop Codons have been found by checking if 'myEnd' is still null. If it isn't, meaning valid Stop Codons have been found, then it prints out a substring starting at the beginning of the Start Codon through the end of the Stop Codon. If 'myEnd' was null, then it sets 'pos' to the length of the Sense Strand, effectively exiting the method.
